Now let's see how I can take a point to an array I will declare an array of size 5 and to this I will assign
some values that is 2 4 6 8 10,  I have taken five values then I will take a pointer P
and I will make it point on A capital A.
A that is address of A base address of A is given to P.
Now I will say Cout star P.
Let us see what the  output I get, see
P is pointing on the first location of an array that is data.
present there is, two.
So when I say you star P I should get the value two. here I got the value 2.
So 2 is printed.
Then if I use  pointer arithmatic P++ and again if I say .
cout star B.
And endl, here also I will write endl, let us see what I get.
Yeah I got first as 2.
And second value as 4, see P was initially pointing on 2.
then P plus plus has moved this P
On next element that is four so when I dereference I'm getting the value four.
So this P++ will increment the pointer and make it point on next data element.
Now similarly after this I will say, P minus minus.
I'm using pointer arithmetic and while using pointer arithmetic.
You don't have to write star for the pointer.
Then here I will say cout dereference P And also endl, let's see what the output I get.
I have taken a pointer to first location and I have printed that data moved the point to the next location
printed the data moved at that point to the previous location and again printed the data
So I'm getting the values as 2 4 2, so
First P was on two then it went on four.
Then again it came back on two.
So P++ and minus minus works like this.
let's see more pointer arithmetic here.
I will say  cout
and then I will endl, cout P plus 2.
endl let's see what I get.
Yeah.
when P is pointing on the first location.
when i print I'm getting there first beginning address of this A and he's off type integer.
So when I say P plus two I should get the address of 6.
That is two elements away.
So as this is a integer and it is taking four bytes in my compiler.
So for two elements it will be 8 byte.
So you can see that the address is  28.
So the first int  address was the last two digits 20.
And here it is 28.
I will deference this one.
I will write
Star in front of this one, star
Then let us see what happens.
here I'm getting data at the first location as well as the second location that is B plus two
now I will write down code for displaying all the elements of an array using a for loop that is counter control
for loop for I assign zero i is less than five.
I ++ then, here I will say Cout,
I
and also endl. let us run and see it should display all the elements in an array Yes I got all the
elements that is two four six eight ten.
Now let me make some modifications in the code instead of writing A[I].
Can I write I[a]
yes it's working I'm getting the same result.
So instead of this can I see star in brackets a plus I
ya again it's working.
I can use this syntax.
Also. if I don't write star in the beginning then I should get addresses star will give the
data.
And this should give addresses, it will give addresses of all the locations of an array .
See the first location was the last two digits 20 then 24 and then 28,  because it's hexadecimal
then 30.
So this is in hexa=decimal forms of 4-4 bytes each.
So I'm getting the  addresses of all. instead of a can i use p here.
I'm changing it to P here. P+i
let's see what happens.
Still am getting the same thing.
So can I  write
Star in front of this P-plus.
I.
What happens now.
So P should add just like the name of an array
A, Yes.
It is working.
So it means that instead of using array name in place of a array name I can also use the point name
just like array name, let us run.
I have written it as P[i] instead of writing A[i] I am writing P[i]
yah its working, it's working and it's displaying all the elements. now i will make some more modification here.
I will say star p.
So I will be printing P.
Then after this I will say P plus plus.
So P be moving to the next element.
I got the result but outside this if I say cout p endl,  and also in the beginning I will say Cout
P endl.
So what I'm doing here is in the beginning I'm displaying the address
That is there in P then I'm writing this loop their pointer p is incrementing and also displaying
all elements in an array.
Then after that again I'm printing the adress of P let's see
what are the addressesi get see first time i got the
last two digits of an adress as  20.
Now the last two digits of that number are 34.
So it means pointer is not on the same place.
pointer has moved to the location outside.
That is after the last index because every time pointer P was moving forward. using the code for
displaying we have seen some pointers arithmetic.
So next one more pointer arithmetic operation we will see.
I have taken P pointing on a.
I will take one more pointer that is.
Q And that I will make  point on A[4].
For now let us see what happens if I cout.
Q minus P.
So I'm printing this difference between two pointers P is pointing on the first element and Q is pointing
on the fourth element in an array so this is the fourth index.
So the difference would be four.
Let us see what happens.
Yeah I got the difference as 4, for showing that there are four elements away from each other.
So instead of Q minus P I will write P minus Q And let us run and see what that is and
so it's minus 4.
It means that the second point that is far and the first pointer is in the beginning that is in front
we have first one pointer and then there have the second pointer.
So that's why we are getting the value as negative so we can also know which pointer is first at which
point that is next.
Along with the number of element, four gives the number of elements and the minus give us of which pointer
comes first.
So this is some sample code I have shown you for pointer arithmetic and a pointer to an array.